# This is the official Next version of Gistoracle

This app is developed to be an online community similar to Reddit but tailored to African content. Its
key features are the ability of users to create their own communities and posts within speciﬁed
categories where people can engage in conversations and opinions.

The Gistoracle application was built using Javascript, CSS3, SASS, Next js (a React.js framework),
Firebase, Material-UI & Tailwind.

The app features a sign-in, sign-up, homepage with news feeds, community pages, category pages,
user proﬁle page, and settings page.

There are multiple dynamically generated pages, some using protected routes with auth listeners.
Firebase ﬁrestore handles all the data and that data in JSON format is retrieved using a custom hook;
authentication is used on all pages requiring tailored user feeds, which is handled by Firebase as well.

I utilized Node.js to implement a serverless function server uploaded to ﬁrebase. The Serverless
functions were used to run processes such as image upload and cron jobs. It was also used to
implement simultaneous update processes when several actions were performed such as updating the
comments count on a post whenever a user makes a comment.

The application state was managed using REDUX, utilized with React which eﬀectively maintained
state throughout the entire application. React context was used to maintain the authentication state in
the application ensuring that logged-in users have tailored news feeds.

The application was designed as a server-side rendered web app with React and Next.js to enable
eﬀective SEO.

Images rendered on the Gistoracle application were managed using a ﬁrebase storage bucket and
sharp npm package to optimize the images.

The news feeds were implemented with inﬁnite scroll functionality, where upon reaching the bottom
of the page more posts are queried and displayed from the ﬁrebase database. The functionality is
implemented in REACT utilizing the react-inﬁnite-scroll-component npm package.

The Gistoracle search algorithm was implemented using Algolia which has an excellent API that works
seamlessly with REACT and ﬁrebase.

Over time the Gistoracle is expected to grow in traﬃc and users, hence google analytics was utilized
through ﬁrebase SDK application to eﬀectively interpret and manage traﬃc generated by the
application.

To aid collaboration, all the code was eﬀectively documented and stored on Github using git in an
eﬀort to aid useful input and development from other talented developers that would be incorporated
into the project in the near future.

This work was done with the idea of building a Reddit-like forum based on the African context. It was
designed as a means of engaging African users and creating conversations.
The Gistoracle app currently has 31 active users and has reached audiences in over 30 countries within
and outside the African continent.
Gistoracle has placed itself as a formidable competitor to the already existing African communities
such as Nairaland due to its outstanding and unique features not being implemented in any other
platform in Africa.
